ASARI.
Native to the planet Thessia, the asari are often considered the most powerful and respected race in the entire galaxy. This is due in part to the fact that the Asari were the first race, after the Protheans, to achieve interstellar flight and discover the Citadel.

This breed is mono-gender (clearly female in appearance). The Asari are known for their elegance and their talent for diplomacy and biotics. They have extreme longevity and their unique physiology allows them to reproduce with a partner of any gender and/or species.

The Asari were instrumental in the proposal and founding of the Citadel Council, and have been the core of galactic society ever since.
<br/>
Biology
Launa T'Saphra mentioning to Isa of Navar the use of pronouns and genders in the asari. A typical Asari individual has a bluish-purple complexion. Some Asari may also feature a blue-green color, but this appears to be a rarity. They may present facial marks (similar to tattoos), it seems that they may be of genetic origin, depending on the race of the father. Instead of hair on their heads, Asari have wavy folds of sculpted skin. Aside from this and their skin tone, aesthetically the Asari are the species most similar to human beings. The Asari have a robust cell regeneration system. While they do not heal faster than other species, Asari can reach 1,000 years of age.

Although the Asari have only one sex, they are not asexual. An Asari provides two copies of her own genes to her offspring, which regardless of the species or sex of the individual they reproduce with, the result is always an Asari. The process of reproduction is known as “fusion,” also known as “union.” During the fusion, an Asari harmonizes her nervous system with that of her partner, sending and receiving electrical impulses directly through the skin. The Asari and her partner briefly become one, once the nervous system is unified.

This unique reproduction process is the reason why the Asari have great biotic talent. Your ability to consciously control nerve impulses is very similar to biotic training. The companion can be another Asari, or another individual of any species. Since the Asari began to encounter other intelligent species, their non-Asari companions have become preferred, due to the diversity they offer.

This reproductive process can lead to some confusion among non-Asari, who may expect offspring to be a mix of genes. However, the offspring are always 100% Asari, as they do not actually take DNA from the couple, they simply use it as a “map” to randomly select the genes (always Asari genes) of the offspring.

The Asari go through 3 stages of life, marked by biochemical changes and physiologies:

The “Maiden” stage begins at puberty and is characterized by the impulse to explore and experiment. Most young Asaris are curious and restless.
The “Midwife” stage begins at the age of 350, although it can occur earlier if the Asari melts frequently. This period is marked by the desire to settle in an area and raise their daughters.
The “Matriarch” stage begins at around 700 years of age, or later if the individual melts on rare occasions. Matriarchs actively participate in their community as wise advisors, offering the wisdom of centuries of experience. Matriarchs are rarely seen outside of Asari space.

It should be noted that each stage can begin when an Asari feels that she has reached the correct level of maturity. Additionally, there may be cases where maidens prefer to stay close to home rather than explore, matrons prefer work to building a family, and matriarchs have no interest in community affairs.
<br/>
HISTORY
The Asari were the first race to achieve space flight and discover mass relays. When they came across the citadel, around 580 BC, they also encountered the caretakers, whose silent assistance allowed them to quickly settle into the station and learn to use its systems. Sixty years later, the Salarians made first contact with the Asari and together the two species agreed to found the Citadel Council.
The Asari continued their exploration. In around 200 BC, they made first contact with the elcor and played a key role in their ascension to the galactic community.
<br/>
CULTURE
Due to their long lifespan, Asari tend to have "long-term vision", which is not common in other species. When encountering a new species or situation, they prefer a long period of passive observation to immediate action. Some decisions of the matriarchs may seem incomprehensible, but their success is evident when their laid plans come to fruition. In interstellar relations, this long-term vision manifests itself in an implicit policy of centrism. The Asari instinctively try to maintain a stable balance of economic, political, and military power.

Traditionally, the Asari extend their influence through cultural domination and intellectual superiority. They invite new and developed advanced species to join the galactic community, knowing that their ideals and beliefs will inevitably influence the existing cultures of those peoples. The Asari also tend toward consensual attitudes among themselves: for example, they prefer to live in communal spaces on ships, even if alternatives are possible.

The Asari believe that their daughters acquire the best qualities of the genetic "father", but the evidence for this is anecdotal. They frown upon conception within the species, due to the genetic traits and cultural knowledge gained by mating outside their species, so it is considered a waste of resources to reproduce in such a way. The results of such unions are sometimes known by the nickname "Purebloods", a great insult among contemporary Asari women. A rare genetic defect known as Ardat-Yakshi, which destroys the mind of the couple during the fusion, is much more common among pureblood daughters.

Due to their natural sensuality and ability to mate with any other species, Asari are sometimes rumored to be promiscuous. These rumors are mostly the result of misinformation (or illusion). In fact, Asari have to accept that if they mate outside of their own species, it is virtually inevitable that they will outlive their mate (with the notable exception of the krogan race, which has similarly immense longevity). Therefore, they have also had to apply their “long-term vision” philosophy to their relationships, enjoying the time they spend with their partner, rather than focusing on their inevitable loss.

The Asari celebrate the spring and fertility ritual Janiris, which marks the beginning of a new year. During this time, they create flower garlands and distribute them among their friends and loved ones. As with other Citadel species festivals, the celebration of Janiris has been adopted by other species operating in Citadel space.
<br/>
RELIGION
The mainstream pantheistic Asari religion is based on Siari, which roughly translates to “All is One.” The faithful agree on certain fundamental truths: the universe is one consciousness, all life within it is an aspect of a greater whole, and death is the merging of one's spiritual energy back into a greater universal consciousness. Siarists do not specifically refer to the belief of reincarnation, but rather believe that spiritual energy returns to universal consciousness after death and will eventually be used to fill new mortal vessels.

The Siari doctrine became popular after the Asari left their homeworld and discovered their ability to merge with almost any life form. This ability is seen as proof that all life is fundamentally similar. The Siari priestesses see themselves in a role of promoting unity between the disparate fragments of the universe's consciousness.

Before the rise of Siari pantheism, Asari religions were as diverse as their political views. The strongest of those religions that survives from those days is the monotheistic religion of Athame. Like the Asari, the goddess's cycles went through the triple aspects of maiden, matron, and matriarch. Asari sometimes swear "by the goddess", although this may be a cultural legacy, rather than reflecting an individual's beliefs.
<br/>
ECONOMY
The asari have the largest single economy in the entire galaxy. They have a large commercial volume and social contacts. Craft guilds, such as those in the cities of Serrice and Armali, maintain a virtual monopoly on advanced biotic technology. Considering their political influence, an embargo by the Asari could be disastrous for the Alliance.
<br/>
GOVERNMENT
The Asari government structure is known as the Asari Republic. The Asari were late to the notion of a one-world government. For centuries, their homeworld (Thessia) was made up of republican cities. The closest equivalent to Earth would be the city-states of the ancient Mediterranean.

Instead of hoarding resources, the Asari practice bartering freely. Instead of attacking each other over differences, they tried to understand each other. It was in the information age when communication through the Internet became an “electronic democracy.”

The Asari have no politicians or elections. Political events take place at all hours of the day in chat rooms and forums that are moderated by virtual intelligences. All aspects of policy are open to voting at any time.

Currently, the Asari act as the diplomatic arm of the Citadel Council.
<br/>
MILITARY
The Asari army resembles a collection of tribal warrior bands with no national structure.

Each community organizes its own unit as the people see it, and they elect a leader to guide them. Units in populous cities are large and well-equipped, while those in agricultural villages may be just a few women with small arms. There is no uniform, everyone wears what they like. However, the Asari army is not an irregular militia after all, and those who serve are full-time professionals.

The average age of an Asari Hunter is that she is in the maiden stage and has spent about 20 or 30 years studying martial arts. Asari choose to be warriors at a young age, and their education from that moment on is dedicated to sharpening their body and mind for a single purpose. When they retire, they have an alarming mastery of the art of killing.

Hunters fight individually or in pairs, depending on the preferred tactics in their city. One by one, the hunters are virtually unbeatable, possessing deep tactical vision, a hunter's eye, and the grace and alacrity of a dancer. Biotics is common enough that some ability is required as a requirement to be trained as a hunter; Lack of biotic talent excludes a young Asari from military service.

Although fluid and mobile, the Asari cannot stand in the face of a storm of enemy fire the way a krogan, turian, or human could. Due to the small size of their units and the fact that they usually lack heavy armor and supporting weapons, they are almost incapable of fighting a conventional war, especially one of a defensive nature. Therefore, Asari units normally carry out special operations missions. Like an army of ninjas, they are experts in ambushing, infiltrating and assassinating, demoralizing and defeating their enemies through intense guerrilla warfare. Asari huntresses were among the first individuals to be chosen as wraiths and played a key role in the krogan rebellions.

As a popular Turian saying goes: "The Asari are the greatest warriors in the galaxy. Fortunately, there are not many of them."
Notable units include: Second Fleet, Sixth Fleet, Serrice Guard, Armali Sniper Unit, Asari Commandos.
<br/>
OTHER DATA:
Type: Humanoids
Average lifespan: 1500 years
Skill: Natural Biotics
Verbal communication
Notable asari:
1. Aria T'Loak
2. Liara T'Soni
3. Matriarch Aethyta
4. Matriarch Benezia
5. Morinth
6. Samara
7. Sha'ira
7. Vasir Cloth